# Lesson 1: How to create a featureless window

Let's get started with the most fundemental basics of any GUI application: Creating a window.
To start, you must have OKit installed on your computer. Follow the simple instructions on the Getting Started page and come back here.
If you're on an Orion-based system, OKit comes with your system so you can ignore the previous instruction.

```cpp
#include <Orion/OKit.hpp>

int main(){
	OKitStart("My OApp");

	OWindow win(0,0,400,350,"My Window");

	OKitEventLoop();
	OKitEnd();
}
```

Now compile it with the flag `-lOKit`, and you've successfully created a basic GUI Application

## Breakdown: Lesson 1

First let's start with the very top, the header file

```cpp
#include <Orion/OKit.hpp>
```

This simple line—if OKit is installed—will include all of the necessary code required to get OKit up and running.
As all things with OKit, is done in only one line. No need to include ten or twenty different things just to get a window up, it comes with everything for you.
Next let's see what's in `main()`.

```cpp
OKitStart("My Oapp");
```

This is the base function that initialises everything you need for OKit. You can pass a name to your application between the parenthesis, however this is optional.
Any OKit UI elements cannot be created before this function is called, so include this at the very top of `main()` with your OApp as the function is required.

>What's the name for? It's optional, so what does it do?

On the simpler side, the name is what your OApp will use in the Homebar generically instead of using the name of your window.
On a more complex note however, the name allows use of the `OAPP_DATAPATH` for storing data when not in an Orion-Native OApp file structure, but let's not get into that just yet.

Let's move onto the next line.

```cpp
OWindow win(0,0,400,350,"My Window");
```

This allows you to create a blank window to the screen. The first two parameters are the positions. and the next two are the size.
In this case we have created a window at the top left of the screen and is 400 points wide and 350 points tall. 
The next parameter is the title of the window. It will show up in the Menubar when the window is active. You can leave this blank as it is optional, and it will default to using the name of the OApp if you supplied it.
Now let's see the last two functions.

```cpp
OKitEventLoop();
```

The Event Loop function handles all of the event processing in the background. This is the complicated stuff that other window toolkits sometimes make you deal with,
however OKit keeps this all hidden from you, so you don't need to tinker with anything.
The function is required, and no code can be executed after this is called until the program is about to end, so place this nearing the end of `main()`.

```cpp
OKitEnd();
```

This function is required, and placed at very end of the application, and it frees up all allocated memory, saves necessary data, and cleanly destroys all UI elements previously created.
Don't call this function anywhere else but the end of `main()`, otherwise you will have very bad consequences. Optionally you can also pass an exit code.

## Conclusion: Lesson 1

Now you know the basics of creating Windows using OKit. Try it yourself, and create a few Windows of your own. Once you've mastered this, move on to the next tutorials.